PR: Update instructions to build the Windows installer (#18233)
spyder-ide/spyder: installers/Windows/README.md

Files covered:

installer.py

## Step by Step: Creating a Spyder Windows Installer
To create a Spyder Windows Installer you must follow the following steps.

### Creating a Conda Environment 
- Download and install Anaconda. You can find the latest version [here](https://www.anaconda.com/products/distribution). 
- Open the Anaconda prompt and make sure that you have admin permissions.
- Create the new enviroment with the following commands:
bash
$ conda create -n installer python=3.8.10
$ conda activate installer

The first command creates an enviroment called "installer" with Python version 3.8.10 and the second one, changes the current enviroment to the new one, "installer".'

After changing to the new enviroment, install yarg with pip. 
bash
pip install yarg

### Creating Enviroment Variables
Before running any script, you must set some enviroment variables first. 

> The list below shows all the variables that must be created.

Reviewer: We could a description of each of these env variables following the comments at the `installer.py` file: https://github.com/spyder-ide/spyder/blob/e63df48d249582edba32aba9fe8c98a4d773a9fe/installers/Windows/installer.py#L38-L71

-   ASSETS_URL=https://github.com/spyder-ide/windows-installer-assets/releases/download/0.0.7/assets.zip
-   UNWANTED_PACKAGES=pip spyder-kernels python-slugify Rtree QDarkStyle PyNaCl
-   SKIP_PACKAGES=bcrypt slugify
-   ADD_PACKAGES=spyder_kernels blib2to3 _black_version blackd rtree qdarkstyle nacl
-   PYNSIST_REQ=pynsist==2.7
-   EXE_NAME=Spyder_64bit_full.exe

For each variable on the list, type
`set <variable=value>` in the anaconda prompt. 
### Running the Installer Script

> Type the following line into the anaconda command prompt:

Reviewer: Probably we should add here that the current working directory is the repository root directory for the command bellow works

bash
python installers/Windows/installer.py 3.8.10 64 setup.py spyder.app.start:main spyder img_src/spyder.ico LICENSE.txt -ep installers/Windows/req-extras-pull-request.txt -s full -t installers/Windows/assets/nsist/spyder.nsi

where:

- `installers/Windows/installer.py` is the path to the installer script
- `3.8.10` is the Python version 
- `64` is the bitness of the installer
- `setup.py`  is the path to the setup script
- `spyder.app.start:main` is the entrypoint to execute the package
- `spyder` is the name of the package
- `img_src/spyder.ico` is the path to the Spyder installer icon.
- `LICENSE.txt`  is the path to the license file
- `installers/Windows/req-extras-pull-request.txt` is the path to the file with the requirements needed besides the dependencies of the main package.
-  `installers/Windows/assets/nsist/spyder.nsi` is the path .nsi template for the installer

Additionaly,
- -ep means extra packages 
- -s means suffix for the name of the generated executable (can be full or lite)

> - -t means template

Reviewer: We could also add here that the `installer.py` has `--help` with the description of all the arguments available so (depending on your current working directory) you can run something like `python installers/Windows/installer.py --help`

Files covered:

installer.py

## Step by Step: Creating a Spyder Windows Installer
To create a Spyder Windows Installer you must follow the following steps.

### Creating a Conda Environment 
- Download and install Anaconda. You can find the latest version [here](https://www.anaconda.com/products/distribution). 
- Open the Anaconda prompt and make sure that you have admin permissions.
- Create the new enviroment with the following commands:
bash
$ conda create -n installer python=3.8.10
$ conda activate installer

The first command creates an enviroment called "installer" with Python version 3.8.10 and the second one, changes the current enviroment to the new one, "installer".'

After changing to the new enviroment, install yarg with pip. 
bash

> pip install yarg

Reviewer: Checking the GitHub preview seems like the `bash` command is not recognized so to put text as code you will need to use the triple backtick ` ``` ` as you did for the commands bellow

### Creating Enviroment Variables
Before running any script, you must set some enviroment variables first. 
The list below shows all the variables that must be created.
- URL to download assets that the installer needs and that will be put on the assets directory when building the installer.

> 	 - ASSETS_URL=https://github.com/spyder-ide/windows-installer-assets/releases/download/0.0.7/assets.zip

Reviewer: We should add a note here indicating that this link point to the repository where the management of the assets/extra files use for the installer construction: https://github.com/spyder-ide/windows-installer-assets/

- Packages to remove from the requirements for example pip or external direct dependencies (python-lsp-server spyder-kernels).  
  - UNWANTED_PACKAGES=pip spyder-kernels python-slugify Rtree QDarkStyle PyNaCl
 - Packages to skip when checking for wheels and instead add them directly in the 'packages' section, for example bcrypt.
   - SKIP_PACKAGES=bcrypt slugify
- Packages to be added to the packages section regardless wheel checks or packages skipped, for example external direct dependencies (spyder-kernels python-lsp-server).  
  - ADD_PACKAGES=spyder_kernels blib2to3 _black_version blackd rtree qdarkstyle nacl
- The pynsist requirement spec that will be used to install pynsist in the temporary packaging virtual environment (pynsist==2.5.1).
  - PYNSIST_REQ=pynsist==2.7
- Name of the installer.
  - EXE_NAME=Spyder_64bit_full.exe

For each variable on the list, type
`set <variable=value>` in the anaconda prompt. 
### Running the Installer Script

> Type the following line into the anaconda command prompt:

Reviewer: Capitalize
```suggestion
Type the following line into the Anaconda prompt:
```

Files covered:

installer.py

## Step by Step: Creating a Spyder Windows Installer

> To create a Spyder Windows Installer you must follow the following steps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a Spyder Windows Installer you must follow the next steps.
```

> ## Step by Step: Creating a Spyder Windows Installer
> To create a Spyder Windows Installer you must follow the following steps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step by Step: Creating a Spyder Windows Installer

To create a Spyder Windows Installer you must follow the next steps.
```

### Creating a Conda Environment 
- Download and install Anaconda. You can find the latest version [here](https://www.anaconda.com/products/distribution). 
- Open the Anaconda prompt and make sure that you have admin permissions.
- Create the new enviroment with the following commands:

> bash

Reviewer: Please use the backticks here to (` ``` ` instead of the `bash` keyword)

$ conda create -n installer python=3.8.10
$ conda activate installer
```

> The first command creates an enviroment called "installer" with Python version 3.8.10 and the second one, changes the current enviroment to the new one, "installer".'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first command creates an enviroment called `installer` with Python version 3.8.10 and the second one, changes the current enviroment to the new one, `installer`.
```

After changing to the new enviroment, install yarg with pip. 
```
pip install yarg
```

> ### Creating Enviroment Variables
> Before running any script, you must set some enviroment variables first. 
> The list below shows all the variables that must be created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

### Creating Enviroment Variables

Before running the `installer.py` script, you must set first some environment variables. The list below shows all the variables that must be created:
```

- URL to download assets that the installer needs and that will be put on the assets directory when building the installer.
	 - `ASSETS_URL=https://github.com/spyder-ide/windows-installer-assets/releases/download/0.0.7/assets.zip`

> Note: *This link point to the repository where the management of the assets/extra files use for the installer construction.*

Reviewer: Little rewording
```suggestion
Note: *This link points to the repository where the assets/extra files used by the installer construction process can be found and are managed.*
```

- Packages to remove from the requirements for example pip or external direct dependencies (python-lsp-server spyder-kernels).  
  - `UNWANTED_PACKAGES=pip spyder-kernels python-slugify Rtree QDarkStyle PyNaCl`
 - Packages to skip when checking for wheels and instead add them directly in the 'packages' section, for example bcrypt.
   - `SKIP_PACKAGES=bcrypt slugify`
- Packages to be added to the packages section regardless wheel checks or packages skipped, for example external direct dependencies (spyder-kernels python-lsp-server).  
  - `ADD_PACKAGES=spyder_kernels blib2to3 _black_version blackd rtree qdarkstyle nacl`
- The pynsist requirement spec that will be used to install pynsist in the temporary packaging virtual environment (pynsist==2.5.1).
  - `PYNSIST_REQ=pynsist==2.7`
- Name of the installer.
  - `EXE_NAME=Spyder_64bit_full.exe`

> For each variable on the list, type
> `set <variable=value>` in the Anaconda prompt. 
> ### Running the Installer Script
> Type the following line into the Anaconda prompt:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For each variable on the list, type `set <variable=value>` in the Anaconda prompt. Another way to handle these environment variables is by using the conda `conda env config vars` command. For more information about that you can check the conda documentation: https://docs.conda.io/projects/conda/en/latest/user-guide/tasks/manage-environments.html#setting-environment-variables

### Running the Installer Script

Type the following line into the Anaconda prompt:
```

Note: *To make this line work the current working directory must be the repository root directory.*

```
python installers/Windows/installer.py 3.8.10 64 setup.py spyder.app.start:main spyder img_src/spyder.ico LICENSE.txt -ep installers/Windows/req-extras-pull-request.txt -s full -t installers/Windows/assets/nsist/spyder.nsi
```

where:

- `installers/Windows/installer.py` is the path to the installer script
- `3.8.10` is the Python version 
- `64` is the bitness of the installer
- `setup.py`  is the path to the setup script
- `spyder.app.start:main` is the entrypoint to execute the package
- `spyder` is the name of the package
- `img_src/spyder.ico` is the path to the Spyder installer icon.
- `LICENSE.txt`  is the path to the license file
- `installers/Windows/req-extras-pull-request.txt` is the path to the file with the requirements needed besides the dependencies of the main package.
-  `installers/Windows/assets/nsist/spyder.nsi` is the path .nsi template for the installer

Additionaly,

> - -ep means extra packages 
> - -s means suffix for the name of the generated executable (can be full or lite)
> - -t means template

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `-ep` means path to a `.txt` file with extra packages definition
- `-s` means suffix for the name of the generated executable (usually can be full or lite)
- `-t` means path to a `.nsi` file template
```

Files covered:

installer.py

## Step by Step: Creating a Spyder Windows Installer

To create a Spyder Windows Installer you must follow the next steps.

### Creating a Conda Environment 

- Download and install Anaconda. You can find the latest version [here](https://www.anaconda.com/products/distribution). 
- Open the Anaconda prompt and make sure that you have admin permissions.

> - Create the new enviroment with the following commands:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Create a new environment with the following commands:

```

```
$ conda create -n installer python=3.8.10
$ conda activate installer
```

> The first command creates an enviroment called `installer` with Python version 3.8.10 and the second one, changes the current enviroment to the new one, `installer`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

The first command creates an enviroment called `installer` with Python version 3.8.10 and the second one, changes the current enviroment to the new one, `installer`.
```

> After changing to the new enviroment, install yarg with pip. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After changing to the new enviroment, install yarg with pip:

```

```
pip install yarg
```

### Creating Enviroment Variables

Before running the `installer.py` script, you must set first some environment variables. The list below shows all the variables that must be created:
- URL to download assets that the installer needs and that will be put on the assets directory when building the installer.
	 - `ASSETS_URL=https://github.com/spyder-ide/windows-installer-assets/releases/download/0.0.7/assets.zip`

> Note: *This link points to the repository where the assets/extra files used by the installer construction process can be found and are being managed.*

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Note: *This link points to the repository where the assets/extra files used by the installer construction process can be found and are being managed.*
```

If I understand correctly, this note belongs to the previous listing.

> - Packages to remove from the requirements for example pip or external direct dependencies (python-lsp-server spyder-kernels).  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Packages to remove from the requirements for example pip or external direct dependencies (e.g. python-lsp-server or spyder-kernels).
```

  - `UNWANTED_PACKAGES=pip spyder-kernels python-slugify Rtree QDarkStyle PyNaCl`

>  - Packages to skip when checking for wheels and instead add them directly in the 'packages' section, for example bcrypt.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - Packages to skip when checking for wheels and instead add them directly in the 'packages' section, for example `bcrypt`.
```

   - `SKIP_PACKAGES=bcrypt slugify`

> - Packages to be added to the packages section regardless wheel checks or packages skipped, for example external direct dependencies (spyder-kernels python-lsp-server).  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Packages to be added to the packages section regardless wheel checks or packages skipped, for example external direct dependencies (spyder-kernels, python-lsp-server).
```

  - `ADD_PACKAGES=spyder_kernels blib2to3 _black_version blackd rtree qdarkstyle nacl`
- The pynsist requirement spec that will be used to install pynsist in the temporary packaging virtual environment (pynsist==2.5.1).
  - `PYNSIST_REQ=pynsist==2.7`
- Name of the installer.
  - `EXE_NAME=Spyder_64bit_full.exe`

> For each variable on the list, type `set <variable=value>` in the Anaconda prompt. Another way to handle these environment variables is by using the conda `conda env config vars` command. For more information about that you can check the conda documentation: https://docs.conda.io/projects/conda/en/latest/user-guide/tasks/manage-environments.html#setting-environment-variables

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For each variable on the list, type `set <variable=value>` in the Anaconda prompt. Another way to handle these environment variables is by using the conda `conda env config vars` command. For more information about that you can check the [conda documentation](https://docs.conda.io/projects/conda/en/latest/user-guide/tasks/manage-environments.html#setting-environment-variables).
```

Use markdown syntax to simplify this link.

### Running the Installer Script

Type the following line into the Anaconda prompt:

Note: *To make this line work the current working directory must be the repository root directory.*

```
python installers/Windows/installer.py 3.8.10 64 setup.py spyder.app.start:main spyder img_src/spyder.ico LICENSE.txt -ep installers/Windows/req-extras-pull-request.txt -s full -t installers/Windows/assets/nsist/spyder.nsi
```

where:

- `installers/Windows/installer.py` is the path to the installer script
- `3.8.10` is the Python version 
- `64` is the bitness of the installer

> - `setup.py`  is the path to the setup script

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `setup.py` is the path to the setup script
```

- `spyder.app.start:main` is the entrypoint to execute the package
- `spyder` is the name of the package
- `img_src/spyder.ico` is the path to the Spyder installer icon.

> - `LICENSE.txt`  is the path to the license file

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `LICENSE.txt` is the path to the license file
```

- `installers/Windows/req-extras-pull-request.txt` is the path to the file with the requirements needed besides the dependencies of the main package.

> -  `installers/Windows/assets/nsist/spyder.nsi` is the path .nsi template for the installer

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-  `installers/Windows/assets/nsist/spyder.nsi` is the path to the .nsi template for the installer
```

Additionaly,
- `-ep` means path to a `.txt` file with extra packages definition

> - `-s` means suffix for the name of the generated executable (usually can be full or lite)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `-s` means suffix for the name of the generated executable (it can be full or lite)
```

- `-t` means path to a `.nsi` file template

> - The command `--help`  is also available for the `installer.py`. This command will give you the description of all arguments needed to run the installer script. An example for this command is shown below.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The command `--help`  is also available for the `installer.py` script. This command will give you the description of all arguments needed to run it. An example for this command is shown below.
```
